And this is session 135,
Safari for Web Designers,
building content for the new web.
So, a lot of the sessions here at the
conference are really targeted towards
developing one kind of application,
and that's a desktop application.
The kind of thing that you would
either put up on your company's
website or put up on version tracker
or maybe even package up in a box,
and then your users would download
it or put in a disk to install it,
and then everyone sort of has their
own personal copy of your software
running on their own personal machine.
Well, in this session,
we're going to talk about a very
different kind of application,
and that is the kind that runs in Safari.
The web browser.
Now, when people talk about applications
that run in the web browser,
there are a lot of complaints
about web technologies,
and here's a few of them.
I can't get the layout that
I want with HTML and CSS.
I can't get the functionality
I want using JavaScript.
JavaScript is too slow.
Another complaint that's not
listed is I can't deal with
cross-browser compatibility.
It's just a huge headache.
Well, I can't deal with
cross-browser compatibility.
Well, these are all really sort of myths,
because if you look at a lot of
new web applications out there and
new applications that are using web
technologies like the dashboard,
you can see that it's really possible
to develop an application that
runs in the web browser or uses web
technologies that really has a lot of
the characteristics of some of the best
and most common desktop applications.
[Transcript missing]
This talk is obviously
for web developers,
but I just want to remind
you that since we're just
talking about web technologies,
this is also for widget developers.
All the concepts that we're going to
talk about today apply to web pages,
and they also apply to widgets.
So, let's get started with the
first part of our talk,
which is best practices
for web compatibility.
[Transcript missing]
So if you think that you're sort
of getting around this whole doc
type thing by leaving it off,
leaving the doc type off of
your document altogether,
you're really not.
Because if you have no doc
type or a malformed doc type,
that will trigger compatibility
mode in the web browser.
So I actually have a really
great example of compatibility
mode versus standards mode.
I have this snippet of HTML right here.
And it's just a div.
The font size is set to XX large.
And inside, it says, hello, world.
Now, with this snippet of HTML,
I've left off the doc type.
So both of these browsers,
Safari and Mac IE,
are rendering the same snippet of HTML.
But in compatibility mode or quirks mode.
So on the left, in Safari,
you can see that Safari renders
it in a 32-point font,
whereas Mac IE is rendering
this in 48-point font.
Same HTML, same exact thing,
two different browsers,
two totally different renderings.
So the way to fix this is
really to add a doc type.
I went ahead and added that
HTML 4.01 strict doc type that
I've... talked about earlier.
And now, this sort of makes...causes
each browser to render the
code in exactly the same way.
Basically,
adding a doc type that triggers
standards mode in the browser really
brings you closer to a standard and to
a more uniform rendering of your pages
in lots of different web browsers.
And that's obviously what you want.
So include a doc type.
After you include a doc type,
code up your whole site,
or maybe as you're starting to
code up and as you're going along,
you're going to want
to validate your code.
And basically,
what validation does is it checks
your code against the syntax that
you've claimed for that page.
I mentioned earlier,
after I add my HTML 4.01
doc type to my document,
that is sort of saying to the browser,
"This whole document, it's HTML 4.01.
Render it as such."
Validation checks your code against
the syntax for that particular language
that's claimed in your dot type.
And really it makes it so that the
browser doesn't sort of have to
second guess what you're doing.
If you leave off a unit identifier
like pixels or something like that,
validation will catch that.
So there are lots of validation errors,
and they can often be a little
cryptic when you're validating.
So I just wanted to
list a few of them here.
Lowercase dot type, incorrect nesting,
uppercase tags,
unquoted value attributes,
missing a closing slash on an empty
element such as an image or a BR tag.
These are really common
validation errors.
It's best to sort of validate, you know,
as you go along so that you don't
have to do a lot of validation.
And then you can also use the W3C markup
validator to help you find those errors.
Luckily,
there are some great tools out there
like the W3C markup validator and
the W3C CSS validator to help you
out and help you find those errors.
So we've sort of covered compatibility.
And the next thing that we're going
to talk about is extensions and RSS.
So let's get into everyone's favorite
extension is the second one listed there,
XML HTTP request.
It's sort of used everywhere
all over right now.
It's sort of the thing that
is making Ajax what it is,
in my opinion.
So we're going to be revising our wiki,
and we're going to use content-editable
and XML HTTP request to sort of
eliminate that ugly flashing,
you know,
in the wiki that sort of obviously says,
this is running in a web browser.
We're going to use these two attributes
to revise our wiki to make it much
more of just an inline text editor.
So content-editable is an attribute that
can be set on any block-level element.
And basically,
this attribute just enables
inline rich text HTML editing.
You'll see a demo of it shortly,
so I won't get into it much more.
XML HTTP request,
it was first implemented in WinIE,
but it's so useful and so great,
it's really now a de facto standard
that every browser implements.
Basically, it just allows the client or
the web browser to submit and
retrieve data in the background.
So that's what basically is
eliminating page reloading.
So let's have a demo.
I'm going to grab a drink of water.
And can we switch to demo machine one?
Okay, great.
Okay.
So, to sort of illustrate my point
that Vicki really needs a makeover,
we started our own Vicki to track our
interview schedule for the Safari team.
So, you can see there are some
really illustrious people
who want to work for us.
So, let me just show you how
an old Vicki would work.
I'd click "Edit."
And this text area comes up,
and there's sort of all
these keys at the bottom,
and I kind of want to add a link,
but I'm not even sure how to do that.
Let me just copy this one,
and we'll say this is on maybe the 24th,
and...
We'll say that it's Susan Care who
wants to interview with us,
and she's going to come in at 2:00 PM.
So now I click Update,
and this page reloads,
and I guess my changes are right here.
So that's basically how old wiki looks.
Like, anyone who is very non-technical,
I think that would be
very difficult for them.
Sort of this crazy text field with
all these special symbols that
you need to add to make things
look the way you want is really,
really confusing.
So now let's go to our brand new site,
which is going to illustrate some of the
ideas that I just referenced in my slide.
So this isn't the flashiest demo,
but that's part of why it's so awesome.
Basically,
I'm going to click Edit Calendar.
And now, this whole div is editable.
You can see my carrot sort of cycling
through the days of the calendar there.
And so I'm just going to pick one,
and I'm going to say Susan Care,
3 o'clock.
Click Done, and that's it.
That's it.
So I can open this in a new window.
and there's a bug.
But basically, I mean, that's it.
It's sort of just like a text editor
as opposed to this ugly page reload,
like I'm so obviously using a
web application sort of demo.
So how did we do this?
Let's take a look at the source.
So this is my HTML file.
And basically,
I've got this edit calendar button,
which calls this set
content editable function.
So it gets this element named wiki,
which is down here.
I've added two markers to
indicate the editable area that
I want to pay attention to.
And then basically,
set content editable just toggles the
content editable attribute on the wiki
div and toggles the value of the button,
either edit or done.
And if we're done,
we want to send the data
using XML HTTP request.
And this is incredibly simple.
Basically, you just want to see if the
XML HTTP request function
is supported on the window,
create a new XML HTTP request,
call open on that object.
You're going to do a post.
You're going to post to this URL,
and true is the final argument.
And then, basically,
all that I'm doing in terms of the
new data that I'm going to send
is I'm getting the inner HTML.
Of this wiki div.
So basically, I'm sending.
This content here in my post,
and then I have a CGI script that
just really basically reads this
file until you get to this point,
and then writes the post,
and then writes the few final tags here.
So, it's really, really pretty simple.
I mean,
I did this in a few lines of JavaScript,
and I'm no Perl expert,
and I wrote the CGI script as well.
So, that's sort of an illustration of
how you can use content-editable
and XML HTTP request to create
a wiki or a sort of editor that
behaves more like a text editor,
like TextEdit or something like that,
as opposed to a web page.
Okay, can we go back to the slides?
So, the next thing on the agenda
is Safari-specific extensions.
XML HTTP request is an extension
that isn't part of any formal spec,
but it's so useful,
it's implemented in every browser.
But these next few things
are Safari-specific,
and you'll see them in the RSS view.
The first one is the search field,
and it's really just an input type.
Input type equals search.
It has a few attributes.
Placeholder is the default text,
which is grayed out,
and then you click on the
field and that disappears.
This is analogous to, you know,
the Google search field in
the Safari Chrome that says
Google inside of it and then
disappears when you click on it.
Incremental is if you want
your search to be incremental,
basically.
The on-search handler is executed on
sort of the pause that follows typing.
Results is the number of results
that you want to show in the list.
Again, like,
the Google search field is sort
of a good illustration of this.
and auto-save is whether or not you
want those results that are in the
results list to persist across sessions.
The other Safari-specific
extension to discuss is the slider.
And all that really is is an
input type that is a range.
So the attributes on that are
just a minimum and maximum value,
and precision can be
either float or integer.
And the input event fires whenever
the value of the slider changes.
So you can tie a JavaScript event
to that input event,
and it'll fire basically
whenever the slider moves.
Really simple stuff.
Beyond the widget-y
extensions and extras,
we're going to talk a little bit
about RSS and why it's a cool idea
to add an RSS feed to your site.
When you decide that you
want to add an RSS feed,
there's really just a few
things that you have to do.
You have to sort of think
about the content that you
want to include in your feed,
sort of, you know,
like maybe for my interview demo site,
I want to include, you know,
an RSS feed that would track feedback
for each of these individual candidates.
Next, you would just code up the XML file
that is going to serve for that feed,
validate it, of course,
just like HTML files.
Since it's XML,
you should be aware of that.
You don't have any common XML syntax
pitfalls like symbols like the
left arrow and ampersand should be
replaced with their HTML equivalents.
And you can use online tools
like Feed Validator to do
this type of validation.
And then the last step is to publish it.
So why add an RSS feed to your site?
Well,
the first reason is really just that it
delivers content in a different format.
And for people who are really
interested in this sort of format,
that's really important.
There are a lot of people out there who
just want the headlines and the summary
and want to be able to quickly see,
you know, the latest and greatest
data without sort of,
you know,
all this other stuff jumbling things up,
like graphics and whizzy
menus and stuff like that.
So that's one reason.
The second is that updates
are easily recognized.
If I were to add a page to my interview
site that sort of tracked feedback
for each individual candidate,
if I had an RSS feed tracking that,
I would be able to easily see
whenever a person added new
feedback or that sort of thing.
And really, the updates are everywhere.
They're in the bookmarks
bar all over the place,
and they're also in the RSS view
sort of all over the place.
The next reason that you might
want to add an RSS feed is
that it's easily searchable.
This is actually a little video
right here that you might not be
able to see unless you watch closely,
but I can sort of search all
these articles on a string in a
way that I wouldn't be able to
do using the find menu or even
a search field that's on a site.
It's very valuable.
So now, to show us how to add an
RSS feed to your site,
Adele Peterson is going to come
on stage and sort of... Oh,
and there she is.
Sort of the gist of it.
The kicker is that we're going to do it
automatically using XML HTTP request.
Adele?
Thanks, Vicki.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
So let's go back and take another look
at the demo that Vicki was showing you.
So Vicki talked a little bit about
the advantages of adding an RSS feed.
And we're going to add RSS feeds
for each of our candidates so that
we can keep track of their feedback
as people want to add that data.
And the advantage of that is,
as you can see in the bookmarks bar,
as data is added,
someone can subscribe to the RSS feed
and keep track of it by just seeing
when the feed has been updated.
So if we go and look at one
of these feedback pages.
You'll see that a bunch of people
have already added feedback
for this particular candidate.
One of the cool things is this
is using some of the technologies
that we've already talked about.
So we're going to use content
editable to make this form a
little easier to deal with.
So you click the edit button.
And ta-da!
You can edit right in line.
Once we're done entering
this information,
we want to add it to the RSS feed.
As web designers,
I'm sure you know that when you
have a lot of data that you want
to display in different ways,
the best way is not always
to enter it manually.
In this case, you'd have to end up adding
RSS feeds in -- you'd have to end
up manually creating the XML files
for the feeds for each candidate.
And it's a lot easier to build
something into your site where the
person who initially enters in the
data in the form will then cause the
data to automatically be updated in the
XML file and display in the RSS feeds.
So that's what we're going to do.
And I'll show you a little
bit of the code later.
So click done.
And... Everything executes.
And we'll go to the RSS feed.
and there's my feedback.
Yay!
Thumbs up, he was great.
So now...
So now we can kind of see how
some of the benefits that Vicki
was talking about earlier about
using the RSS feed in this way,
just that you can search and
see who else used the word great
to describe this candidate.
And you can just say, oh,
who's interviewed him so far?
and I will be talking about
the new features of Safari RSS.
You can manage the data in this way
and without having to go and create a
whole other file to manage this data,
you're automatically updating it
when you enter in the data initially.
Okay.
So let's go back and look at the
JavaScript and see how we did this.
First, let's take a look at the HTML so
we can see some of the hooks we
put in there to make everything a
little bit easier for ourselves.
Let's scroll down here and look at
where we have the content-editable part.
In these paragraph elements,
we added an ID that is equal to the tag
name that we're going to need to use
when we create the XML file for RSS.
So the XML file needs to have
-- when we add this entry for
this particular bit of feedback,
it needs to have a title
tag and a description tag.
So we're going to stick this in the
ID so that in the JavaScript when
we go to create the data that
we have something to reference.
Okay.
So now let's go and
look at the JavaScript.
When we first clicked that edit button,
we had something very similar to
the last demo where we went and
set the content editable attribute,
etc., etc.
No big deal.
We're old pros at that.
So the next time when you
go and click the done,
we call this build post function,
which is going to build up the data
that we want to send to the server.
And then when we have that data,
we're going to send it to the
server using XML HTTP requests so
everything's behind the scenes and
we don't interrupt the workflow.
Okay, so let's take a look at
the build post function.
So basically all we're doing
with build post is we're looking
at those paragraph elements and,
you know, using the IDs to identify them,
and we're building up this string
with the inner HTML of those elements.
So when we're ready to
go and send the data,
all we have to do is create our
XML HTTP request and open the URL and
send the data just like we did before.
And the script on the
server is very basic.
You know,
all it's doing is inserting that bit of
XML into the XML file that already exists
that we've been using for the feed.
So now I just want to show
you guys one more thing.
One more benefit of doing
it this way is that,
you know,
[Transcript missing]
Okay, can I have the slides again?
So XML HTTP request, you gotta love it.
It's so useful for so many things.
So now we've covered compatibility,
we've covered extras
like extensions and RSS,
and the last thing that we're
going to talk about is plug-ins.
And really, plug-ins, you know,
all I have to say about them
is really they're for everyone.
So, plug-ins are a great way to get
your users to use your plugins.
And plug-ins are a great way to
get your users to use your plugins.
And like I mentioned before,
even if you think you're not some
hardcore programmer that would never,
ever write a plug-in,
it's a technology that's worth
learning because you can really add
a lot of native functionality to
your websites and to your widgets.
Sort of the iTunes music player,
the address book widget,
those things are using plug-ins
because they're running native code.
So I'm going to keep my discussion of
plugins very short because there have
been probably three or four talks that
go into a lot of detail about plugins.
Basically,
I just want to mention that there are two
kinds of plugins that you could write.
You could write a Netscape-style plugin.
The advantage there is that
it's compatible with Safari,
Firefox, and OmniWeb.
Or you could write a WebKit plugin.
The benefit there that it's
extremely easy to implement,
and it's also compatible with
any WebKit-based application.
So I'm not going to get
into a lot of detail.
Let's just go into a demo for
adding a plugin to your site
with our wonderful intern,
Kevin Decker.
Thanks, Vicky.
So can we get demo machine number two,
please?
That would be this one.
Cool.
So I've made a couple changes
to Vicky's awesome site.
And what I want to do is,
I guess I first want to preface this,
is that this is a really exciting
time to be developing on the web.
Because before, you know,
you had this whole paralysis
through analysis where,
you know, you know, if you wanted,
let's say, for example,
download a resume, you know,
you have to download the disk and
copy it and go on your desktop,
you have to manage it.
So one of the first things
I did was I thought,
well, when I mouse over my name,
for example,
I get this little pop-up thing,
kind of like a tool tip,
fades away and out.
And then I can click on this,
I can click on this
person's dorky picture,
click on this,
and I'll get this iframe here.
And I can take this,
I don't need that scroll bar there,
I can move it around.
It's got, it's got a, you know,
a fake resume.
So, and you can, this is all in the HTML.
So if you want to download this disk,
you can.
But if you just want to snap shot,
if you want to see it, it's right there.
So that's that.
And something else that we
thought would be beneficial,
too, is, you know, gosh, you know,
we have this on the web,
but what if I want to contact,
what if I want to put
this person's information,
let's say, in my address book?
Well, before,
I'd have to go in my address
book and type all it in.
And that's just really not necessary.
So with a plug-in,
what we did was you click
this button right here,
and when I click that,
I go in my address book.
There it is.
So what I want to do is...
It really works!
So, when Vicki said it was really
easy to write a WebKit plug-in,
she wasn't kidding.
So, I'm going to open this up.
There's two things I want to show.
I don't want to go into a
whole bunch of detail about how
these plug-ins work because,
as Vicki said,
there were sessions already,
but I just want to give
you the bird's eye view.
But I think really that will give
you enough to get started right away.
So, first let's look at what
it's like to use it.
There's two parts to this.
There's a JavaScript part,
and there's also the actual
Objective-C plug-in part.
And so,
first let's look at the JavaScript,
what that does.
So, I'm going to open this up in Xcode.
And basically, the idea is,
when I moused over the address book icon,
when I actually clicked it,
this happens right here.
We get all this information,
and these two lines of code right here,
we add the contact.
So, we're going to open this up.
We get the embed,
which is the plug-in that we have,
and pass it this information.
So, the real meat of what's interesting
is this plug-in.addContact.
How does that work?
Well,
that's what we're going to see right now.
So, I think I can quit this now,
but that's just so cool.
I'll go to my plug-in.
There's a couple things you want
to do to make this actually happen,
and I'll explain these one by one.
So you want to start off right
here with returning an NSView.
This is the plug-in view with arguments.
This is basically where you
instantiate the plug-in.
When Safari calls your plug-in,
this is what gets called,
so you want to make
sure you instantiate it.
This set arguments thing
is kind of important.
It may be especially important if
you want to pass arguments to it.
For example, the QuickTime plug-in passes
arguments like the size,
how big you want to make it.
Anything that you want to put inside of a
markup tag will go in here as arguments.
So that's basically all this is.
The web script for name selector,
what this does, when I have my,
let me go back to this part here.
Notice right here this method,
add contact.
Well, you say, where did this come from?
Well, the answer is,
it came from the web.
It came from this.
This is where we basically
bind an Objective-C function,
a method I should say,
to this from JavaScript.
So JavaScript thinks this
method is called add contact,
and we basically say, you know,
if this method,
use this method right here
and call it add contact.
That's how we're going to
expose it to JavaScript.
And so this is the only,
something else you want to do is,
is selector excluded from web script?
It's kind of important too, because,
you know,
your implementation has many details.
Not all of these details do you
want to expose from JavaScript.
Only the ones that you want to expose,
you should put in this method.
In this case,
we check if the selector is this
add contact with first name,
if it's, then go ahead and return no.
If it's not that.
I said that backwards.
If the selector is this,
then don't exclude it.
Otherwise, return yes.
So, now, here's actually,
this one function right here does
the entire address book operation.
This add contact with first name,
last name, address, city, blah, blah,
blah.
So, when I scroll down,
this is basically using the
Mac OS X address book framework.
It's really, really simple.
This is a few lines of code
where we just create an,
an, an, an AB address book and an, an,
an AB person.
You, you can go on the
Apple website and look up,
you know, AB person and figure
out how to do this in,
in no more than 10 minutes.
So, basically, we just, and,
and last but not least, we also, the,
the, the picture in the address book,
this right here, in the address book,
it lets you also store pictures.
So, from JavaScript,
we get a URL and we put that URL in, in,
in the picture.
And then, last but not least,
we add the record to it and
we tell it we want to save.
And that's basically it.
And, of course,
you want to be a first cloud,
you want to be a, you know, clean and de,
de, deallocate the arguments.
Anything that you've, that you've used.
So, that's basically, in a nutshell,
just to recap, you want to, this method,
you're going to want to pay attention to,
this method and right here,
this plugin view with arguments.
If you can implement those,
you're going to want to pay attention
to this method and right here,
this plugin view with arguments.
those three methods,
then you too can make a plug in.
And if I can do it,
you guys can definitely do it.
So, there you have it.
Thanks a lot, Vicki.
- Thank you.
Hey, that was probably my favorite demo.
Mine too.
So now we've sort of covered
these three main areas,
compatibility, extras, and plug-ins.
And so now you've got the tools
you need to go out and develop
some great web applications.
I just wanted to recap the URLs that
I cited in my slides because I don't
think they're posted on the web.
So if you want to take
a quick look there.
And who to contact is Mark Malone.
He'll be on stage shortly.
He's our Internet Partnership Manager.
If you have any questions
about compatibility or anything
that we've talked about today,
he'll pass those questions on to me.